{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c79525;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93\'94\'94Participants were instructed to read at a natural pace and answer the questions as quickly and accurately as possible by pressing one of two keys ("F" key for True or the "J" key for False) (the selection of these keys followed previous work in psycholinguistics, e.g., Wagers, Lau, & Phillips, 2009).\
Marijuan dissertation \'94\'94\'94 \
\
\'93\'94\'94Between each block, participants were given three breaks; they were also informed that a break could be taken at any point in the experiment. After completing the experiment, participants took the grammatical section of the Placement Test (Appendix A) and, finally, they were given an exit questionnaire (Appendix C) and were debriefed. Marijuan dissertation  \'93\'94\'94\
\
Changes to Jegerski\'92s stimuli:\
\
Verbs used in transitive weren\'92t used in intransitive (gritar) \'97> cuando la artista sali\'f3 el cuadro cay\'f3 de la pared.\
Pagar el diamante changed becuase I didn\'92t expect it to be transitive for learners\
\'93Cinco d\'edas despu\'e9s de que bebieron el vino\'94 was changed to \'93Antes de que bebieran/celebraran\'94 to balance each adverb\
3 metros \'97> diez pies de altura (for learners in US)\
Montarse \'97> subirse because they study this (subir el autobus); montar is used elsewhere in the stimuli as \'93assemble\'94\
Concursante \'97> participante (vocab familiarity)\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 My study will change "tres metros" to diez pies for reasons of comprehensibility for students\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 de una vez removed from first stimulus for ease\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 planes was changed to planos\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Thank you for your interest in my research study. I don't have the exact fillers to share with you for that particular experiment, because they were entered directly into the software and I no longer use that program, but I can tell you what they were like. There were 40 distractors from another sentence processing experiment on relative clause attachment and the other 80 were just miscellaneous fillers, not directed at any particular linguistic form. In both cases, the sentences were subject first, with no fronted phrases, and canonical\'a0SVO word order. Let me know if you have any other questions.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 I hope this is helpful. I'll be interested to\'a0hear more about your study in the future, as it progresses.\'a0(And please tell Cristina I said "hi"\cell \lastrow\row
}