{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 References\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa100\qj

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Abutalebi, J., Miozzo, A., & Cappa, S. F. (2000). Do subcortical\
	structures control language selection in bilinguals? Evidence from 	pathological language mixing.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Neurocase, 6,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0101\'96106.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Abutalebi, J., Della Rosa, P. A., Green, D. W., Hernandez, M., Scifo, P., \
	Keim, R., Cappa, S. F., & Costa, A. (2012). Bilingualism tunes the 	anterior cingulate cortex for conflict monitoring.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Cerebral Cortex, 	22,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a02076\'962086.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Adesope, O. Lavin, O., Thompson, T., . & Ungerleider, C. (2010). A \
	systematic review and meta-analysis of the cognitive correlates of 		bilingualism. Review of Educational Research, 80(2), 207-245. \
Adler (in progress) \
Benmamoun, E., Montrul, S., & Polinsky, M. (2013). Keynote article. 	\
	Heritage and their speakers: Opportunities and challenges for \
	linguistics. Theoretical Linguisitcs, 39(3-4), 129- 181. \
Bialystok, E. (2007). Cognitive effects of bilingualism: How linguistic 	\
	experience leads to cognitive change. The International Journal of \
	Bilingual Education and Bilingualism, 10(3), 210-223. \
Bialystok, E. (2009). Bilingualism: The good, the bad and the indifferent. \
	Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 12(1), 3-11. \
Bialystok & Luk, 2012\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Bialystok, E., Craik, F. I. M., & Luk, G. (2008). Cognitive control and 	\
	lexical access in younger and older bilinguals.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Journal of \
	Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, \
	34,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0859\'96873.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Bialystok, Luk, Peets, & Yang, 2010; \
Botvinick, Braver, Barca, Carter & Cohen, 2001\
Cenoz & Valencia, 1994)\
Colzato, Bajo, Wildenberg, Poaolieri, Nieuwenhuis, La Heij, & Hommel, 2009; \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Costa, A., Hern\'e1ndez, M., & Sebasti\'e1n-Gall\'e9s, N. (2008). Bilingualism \
	aids conflict resolution: Evidence from the ANT task.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Cognition, \
	106,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a059\'9686.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Fabbro, F., Skrap, M., & Aglioti, S. (2000). Pathological switching \
	between languages following frontal lesion in a bilingual \
	patient.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry, \
	68,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
650\'96652.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Fedorenko, 2014; \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Francis, W. S. (1999). Analogical transfer of problem solutions within \
	and between languages in Spanish-English bilinguals.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Journal of \
	Memory and Language, 40,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0301\'96329.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Freitas, Bahar, Yang & Banai, 2007\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Gold, B. T., Kim, C., Johnson, N. F., Kryscio, R. J., & Smith, C. D. \
	(2013). Lifelong bilingualism maintains neural efficiency for \
	cognitive control in aging.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Journal of Neuroscience, 33,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0387\'96396.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Gollan, T. H., Fennema-Nostestine, C., Montoya, R. I., & Jernigan, T. L. \
	(2007). The bilingual effect on Boston naming test \
	performance.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Journal of the International Neuropsychological \
	Society, 13,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0197\'96208.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Gollan, T. H., Montoya, R. I., & Werner, G. A. (2002). Semantic and \
	letter fluency in Spanish-English bilinguals.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Neuropsychology, \
	16,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0562\'96576.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Gratton, Coles, & Donchin, 1992\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Green, C. S., & Bavelier, D. (2008). Exercising your brain: A review of \
	human brain plasticity and training induced learning.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Psychology \
	and Aging, 23,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0692\'96701.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Green, D. W. (1998). Mental control of the bilingual lexico-semantic \
	system. Bilingualism & Cognition, 1, 67-81. \
Hsu & Novick (2016)\
January, Trueswell & Thompson-Schill, 2009\
Kerns, Cohen, MacDonald, Cho, Stenger & Carter, 2004)
\i \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0 \cf0 Kroll & Bialystok, 2013; \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Kroll, J. F., & De Groot, A. M. B. (1997). Lexical and conceptual \
	memory in the bilingual: Mapping form to meaning in two languages. In A. M. B. de Groot & J. F. Kroll (Eds.),\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Tutorials in bilingualism
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0(pp.\'a0169\'96199). Mahwah: Erlbaum.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Kroll, J. F., & Sunderman, G. (2003). Cognitive processes in second language learners and bilinguals: The development of lexical and conceptual representations. The handbook of second language acquisition (pp. 104-129). Oxford, UK: Blackwell Publishing. \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Maguire, E. A., Gadian, D. G., Johnsrude, I. S., Good, C. D., Ashburner, J., Frackowiak, R. S., & Frith, C. D. (2000). Navigation-related structural change in the hippocampi of taxi drivers.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA, 97,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a04398\'964403.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Martin, C. D., Dering, B., Thomas, E. M., & Thierry, G. (2009). Brain potentials reveal semantic priming in both the \'91active\'92 and the \'91non-attended\'92 language of early bilinguals.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
NeuroImage, 47,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0326\'96333.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Novick, Kan, Trueswell, & Thompson-Schill, 2009)\
Novick, Trueswell & Thompson-Schill, 2005)\
Olulade, O. A., Jamal, N. I., Koo, D. S., Perfetti, C. A., LaSasso, C., Eden, G. F. (2015). Neuroanatomical evidence in support of the bilingual advantage theory. Cerebal Cortex, 1-9. \
Paap, K. R., & Greenberg, Z. I. (2013). There is no coherent evidence for a bilingual advantage in executive processing. Cognitive psychology, 66(2), 232 -258.
\f0 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Polinsky, M., & Kagan, O. (2007). Heritage languages: In the \'91wild\'92 and in the classroom. Language and Linguistics Compass, 1(5), 368-395.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cb2 Potowski, K. (2014)
\i  Heritage language teaching: Research and practice.
\i0  With Beaudrie, S., Ducar, C. \'a0McGraw-Hill.\cb1 \'a0\
Potowski, K. (2010) 
\i Conversaciones escritas: Spanish composition for heritage and L2 students
\i0 .\'a0 John Wiley & Sons.\
Potowski, K. (2016)
\i  Intra-Latino language and identity: MexiRicans in Chicago.
\i0  Amsterdam: John Benjamins.\'a0\
Rosselli, Ardila, Araujo, Weeks, Caracciolo, Padilla, Ostroski-Solis, 2000\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Salthouse, T. A., & Mitchell, D. R. D. (1990). Effects of age and naturally occurring experience on spatial visualization performance.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Developmental Psychology, 26,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0845\'96854.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Sanz, 2000\
Torres, J. & Sanz, C. (2015). Is There a Cognitive Advantage for Spanish Heritage Bilinguals? A First Look. 
\i Heritage Language Journal, 12 
\i0 (3), 292-309.\
Ullsperger, Bylsma & Botvinick, 2005\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Van Hell, J. G., & Dijkstra, T. (2002). Foreign language knowledge can influence native language performance in exclusively native contexts.\'a0
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 9,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
\'a0780\'96789.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Ye & Zhou, 2009\
}