{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red80\green22\blue124;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c39216\c16471\c56078;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Notes:\
Bilinguals activate both languages at the same time \
Bialystok does her research in Canada - who are these bilinguals in all of this research?\
\
\
Bialystok and Poarch (2014)\
Because bilinguals are not pre-selected in this context, comparisons between monolingual and bilingual individuals who are matched on other relevant variables can be used to isolate aspects of cognitive and brain function that are different for the bilingual group. This possibility of finding relatively well-matched groups of monolingual and bilingual participants for research alleviates some of the problems of direction and selection although nonetheless the research necessarily remains correlational and not causal.\
\

\f1 The fact that this competition does not impede performance \'96 bilinguals are not prone to massive intrusions from the unwanted language in their speech production or comprehension \'96 signals that the competition is resolved before it becomes a problem.\
\
Our speculation on the mechanism for resolving this conflict is that the domain-general executive control system, a network of brain regions and processes whose job it is to monitor and resolve conflict, shift attention, and manipulate working memory, is recruited into language processing (for a review see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4243303/#R13"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Bialystok et al. 2009}}).
\f0 \
\

\f1 This constant involvement of the general executive control network in language processing has two consequences: first, the network itself is reconfigured relative to that used by monolinguals (e.g. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4243303/#R34"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Luk et al. 2010}}), and second, the efficiency and power of the network is increased through massive practice (e.g. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4243303/#R21"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Gold et al. 2013}}).\

\f0 \
Tao et al. (2011)\
Both approaches seem to be of great importance since the relationship between bilingualism and executive functions appears to be more complex than initially claimed (Tao et al., 2011)\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
	\
Cognitive control (1) \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 conflict resolution and (2) monitoring system\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360
\cf2 which evaluates the need to engage the conflict resolution mechanism (Bialystok et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B12"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}; Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}). According to Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}), if the task at hand engages the monitoring system to a large extent, the advantage for bilinguals on overall RTs emerges. \
\
Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}) proposed two alternative ways in which the interplay between conflict resolution and monitoring processes might be explained. According to the first hypothesis, bilingualism may independently influence 
\b both monitoring and conflict resolution
\b0  processes. According to the second hypothesis, the monitoring system may account for the observed bilingual advantage on both overall RT and conflict cost. The fact that the bilingual benefit in conflict resolution in most of the previous studies co-occurs with the overall RT benefit seems to support the latter claim (cf. Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}). \
\
The bilinguals tested in the two previous studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}) were highly proficient and balanced early bilinguals. Since the bilingual advantage in overall RTs observed in those studies was not always accompanied by the reduced cost of conflict resolution, authors concluded that bilingualism primarily influences the monitoring system rather than the conflict resolution processes. In the present study, the bilingual advantage on overall RTs was observed only in combination with a reduced conflict cost for early bilinguals, whose L1 proficiency was rather limited. Although bilinguals from the studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 2009}}) and the early bilinguals from the current study differed from each other in many aspects of language experience, they shared one common characteristic \'96 the early age of acquisition.}