{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red80\green22\blue124;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c39216\c16471\c56078;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Cognitive Control in bilinguals\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 	One reality of bilingualism is the consistent need to suppress one language according to the context. It\'92s been shown that a bilingual does not separate the mental lexicons and grammars, but rather that both are active during any language use (Kroll & Bialystok, 2013; Kroll & Sunderman, 2003). Within Green\'92s (1998) Inhibitory Control Model, the competitor is suppressed by executive control (or cognitive control). That is to say, given two competing forms, the salient but contextually-infelicitous form is suppressed by CC while the desired form is promoted. This model and the much of the early research that followed (see Bialystok, 2007, 2009, for reviews) investigated whether this constant activation of CC led to improved performance of bilinguals on nonlinguistic tasks (that is, did consistent use of cognitive control lead to more apt cognitive control), what would become known as the bilingual advantage (Bialystok, 
\b 2009
\b0 ). The bilingual advantage has subsequently been attested through neuroimaging studies and behavioral studies. In neuroimaging, larger gray matter volume has been observed in brain areas that serve executive functioning (Olulade, Jamal, Too, Perfetti, LaSasso and Eden, 2015). Likewise, the anterior cingulate cortex, a neural structure involved in conflict resolution, the activation of which correlates to poorer performance on conflict tasks, has been observed to be activated more by monolinguals performing such tasks (Abutalebi et al., 2012), and this decreased network activation was replicated by Gold et al. (2013). Likewise, a large effect size was observed in a meta-analysis conducted by Adesope, Levin, Thompson, and Ungerledier, 2010, comparing attentional control of monolingual and bilingual populations, which likewise would suggest a bilingual advantage\
\
However, some questions have arisen in the research, such as the extent to which the bilingual advantage is demonstrated by distinct populations of bilinguals (e.g., Torres & Sanz, 2015; Colzato, Bajo, Wildenberg, Poaolieri, Nieuwenhuis, La Heij, & Hommel, 2009; Paap & Greenberg, 2013). \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Both approaches seem to be of great importance since the relationship between bilingualism and executive functions appears to be more complex than initially claimed (Tao et al., 2011)
\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	\cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
	\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360

\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 which evaluates the need to engage the conflict resolution mechanism (Bialystok et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B12"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}; Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}). According to Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}), if the task at hand engages the monitoring system to a large extent, the advantage for bilinguals on overall RTs emerges. \
\
Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}) proposed two alternative ways in which the interplay between conflict resolution and monitoring processes might be explained. According to the first hypothesis, bilingualism may independently influence 
\b both monitoring and conflict resolution
\b0  processes. According to the second hypothesis, the monitoring system may account for the observed bilingual advantage on both overall RT and conflict cost. The fact that the bilingual benefit in conflict resolution in most of the previous studies co-occurs with the overall RT benefit seems to support the latter claim (cf. Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}). \
\
The bilinguals tested in the two previous studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}) were highly proficient and balanced early bilinguals. Since the bilingual advantage in overall RTs observed in those studies was not always accompanied by the reduced cost of conflict resolution, authors concluded that bilingualism primarily influences the monitoring system rather than the conflict resolution processes. In the present study, the bilingual advantage on overall RTs was observed only in combination with a reduced conflict cost for early bilinguals, whose L1 proficiency was rather limited. Although bilinguals from the studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 2009}}) and the early bilinguals from the current study differed from each other in many aspects of language experience, they shared one common characteristic \'96 the early age of acquisition.}