{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red80\green22\blue124;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c39216\c16471\c56078;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Conflict Control Tasks\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Cognitive control tasks? What are they? What do they mean? Why?\
\
Cognitive controls\'92 different roles: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4009428/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4009428/}}\
\
ANT\
Stroop\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cognitive control (1) 
\fs32 \cf2 \cb4 conflict resolution and (2) monitoring system\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360
\cf2 which evaluates the need to engage the conflict resolution mechanism (Bialystok et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B12"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}; Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}). According to Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}), if the task at hand engages the monitoring system to a large extent, the advantage for bilinguals on overall RTs emerges. \
\
Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}) proposed two alternative ways in which the interplay between conflict resolution and monitoring processes might be explained. According to the first hypothesis, bilingualism may independently influence 
\b both monitoring and conflict resolution
\b0  processes. According to the second hypothesis, the monitoring system may account for the observed bilingual advantage on both overall RT and conflict cost. The fact that the bilingual benefit in conflict resolution in most of the previous studies co-occurs with the overall RT benefit seems to support the latter claim (cf. Costa et al., {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}). \
\
The bilinguals tested in the two previous studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}) were highly proficient and balanced early bilinguals. Since the bilingual advantage in overall RTs observed in those studies was not always accompanied by the reduced cost of conflict resolution, authors concluded that bilingualism primarily influences the monitoring system rather than the conflict resolution processes. In the present study, the bilingual advantage on overall RTs was observed only in combination with a reduced conflict cost for early bilinguals, whose L1 proficiency was rather limited. Although bilinguals from the studies by Costa et al. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B26"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2008}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3114252/#B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2009}}) and the early bilinguals from the current study differed from each other in many aspects of language experience, they shared one common characteristic \'96 the early age of acquisition.}