{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Writing a dissertation has been truly humbling and I feel tremendous gratitude for the support and lessons I have received along the way. To Cristina Sanz, my mentor and friend: I admire you in so many ways, but especially as a scholar, teacher, and superwoman in general. Thank you for believing in my ideas and in my ability to pursue them from the beginning, and for the laughter and many entertaining metaphors in your office that involved onion layers and forests. I am beyond grateful for your clarity, scholarly guidance, excellent feedback, and for the many times you have renewed my confidence in this process during the last five years. To Ron Leow, my 'boss' and friend: Thank you for the many opportunities you have given me, for encouraging me to think deeper and question assumptions in our field, and for your many famous reminders, my favorite of which is to have fun and enjoy the journey! You have undoubtedly pushed me to grow as a scholar, teacher, and administrator. To Nuria Sagarra, who has been an invaluable committee member and friend: I remember meeting in a caf\'e9 in Barcelona to "chat" about working memory, automatization, and L2 proficiency and feeling grateful, though maybe surprised, that you were on board with this kitchen sink project. Thank you for your continuous flexibility and sharp feedback, which has truly improved my dissertation and future research. I also owe a great deal to our resident statistician, Rusan Chen, for his ever cheerful guidance in carrying out statistical analyses, even when I asked questions I should have already known the answer to, and for the refreshing view of the Potomac river from his office window. It brightened my day many times. To the beginning, intermediate, and advanced Spanish instructors at Georgetown who let me invade their classrooms and to their students who volunteered to participate in this research: You deserve many years of good karma. Thank you for your curiosity and commitment to taking vi part in this study, despite the frequent classroom interruptions, annoying reminder emails, and endless hours spent with me in a language lab. Your smiles and positive attitudes were contagious. To my own students who I have had the privilege of teaching over the last five years: Thank you for being an outlet of creativity in the classroom, for your good humor and hard work, and for reminding me on a daily basis of why I am lucky to teach and research language. I am very thankful for my Hoya family of friends and colleagues who have shared in the highs and lows of this experience with me. To Sarah Grey, Julio Torres, Germ\'e1n Z\'e1rate-S\'e1ndez, Jason Robinson, Jessie Cox, Annie Calder\'f3n, Kaitlyn Tagarelli, Julie Lake, Marisa Filgueras, Charlie Nagle, Sergio Adrada, Ana Mar\'eda Ferreira, Eli Kissling, Aubrey Logan-Terry, Rachael Albritten, Luis Cerezo, Missy Baralt, and Laura Gurzynski-Weiss: thank you for meeting me at some point along this seemingly endless, but always entertaining road of being a Ph.D. student. Your friendship and work ethic have been inspiring and provided much needed laughter many times along the way. This dissertation would not have been possible without my parents, who have loved and supported me unconditionally throughout every chapter in my life, and to whom I dedicate this dissertation. To Mom and Dad: Thank you for being so very proud of me and for believing in my ability to achieve my goals, even when that meant moving across the country and world. Dad, you are a constant example of hard work and dedication and I will always carry your lessons and advice with me, though I am still refining the art of 'working smarter, not harder'. Mom, your excitement about each small step forward and comfort during each minor setback always renewed my drive to keep going and I have felt stronger after every phone call. To Mom and Ed: Thank you for your boundless pride and confidence in my decisions, for celebrating each milestone, and for continuously emphasizing the value of investing in myself. Your generous vii support and reminders to take it one day at a time have helped me keep the bigger picture and the end goal in mind. To my 'baby' sisters, Masa and Gigi: Thank you for ensuring I kept a sense of humor and didn't take this thing too seriously, for always listening to the good and the bad, and of course, for advising me on what to wear during this process. To my suegros, Phil and Mary Alice: Thank you for reminding me to be kind to myself and to reboot and realign the plan when needed. Your genuine interest and pride in my work has truly been a source of motivation. To my Grandma and Grandpa Duffy, Grammy, and Papa Phil: Thank you for always asking questions about my students and research, and sincerely wanting to hear the answers. I feel fortunate to have you in my life and to have shared this experience with you. To my Grandma and Grandpa Johnson: You have been present during this journey even though you are no longer here; thank you for your never-ending pride in me. To my aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces, brotherin-law, and sister-in-law who live near and too far away: Thank you for being supportive and curious about what was happening in my world at every family gathering. You are a constant reminder of what matters most. Finally, to my husband and best friend, Ted Serafini: Thank you for climbing this mountain with me. I would not have wanted to do it without you or your jokes, even the ones you tend to repeat. Thank you for always making me laugh, for making me take a break from the computer to walk or run in the sunshine and feel human again, for picking me up at campus during data collection marathon weekends, for bringing me plants, flowers, coffee, wine, chocolate, etc., for going salsa dancing when you needed to study, for always supporting and listening to me no matter what you had on your plate, and above all, for continually teaching me about persistence and determination. You are an unfailing source of strength and love.}