{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 From Sivlia\'92s dissertation:\
\
Self-paced reading procedure Self-paced-reading (SPR), the methodology employed in this dissertation, has been long used in adult native speakers (e.g., Schneider & Phillips, 2001) and child speakers (e.g., Sekerina, Fernandez & Clahsen, 2008) and it has been steadily growing in Second Language Acquisition (SLA), specifically in experimental studies investigating morphosyntactic sentence processing (e.g., Foote, 2011; Jiang, 2004, 2007; Sagarra & Herschensohn, 2010; 2011, 2012; Tokowicz & Warren, 2010, VanPatten, Keating & Leeser, 2012). As explained by Sagarra and Herschenson (2010), this procedure works as follows: Participants are shown rows of dashes such as the dashes below (Figure 1): \
Figure 1: Word-by-word self-paced reading procedure _______ __________ __ ______ ____________ _______ Each dash represents a word in a sentence (i.e., the words are \'93masked\'94) and are separated by spaces which represent the visible characters normally seen during natural reading. When participants press the space bar, the first word appears, and each time the space bar is pressed, a new word is revealed and the last word becomes dashes again, as seen in Figure 2: Figure 2: Example of word-by-word self-paced reading procedure The ____ ___ ______ ______ ________ (space bar press) ____ boys ____ ______ _______ _______ (space bar press) ____ ____ run ______ _______ _______ When a participant presses the key on the last word of the sentence, a comprehension question about the sentence is usually prompted, and participants mark their answer by pressing a button (e.g., \'93yes\'94, \'93no\'94). The time spent reading each word is measured in milliseconds (ms.) as the time (i.e., Reaction Time, RTs) spent between two successive space bar key presses. Therefore, the dependent measure in SPR is the latency of button-pressing and processing (Jiang, 2007). It is assumed that as processing becomes difficult, participants slow down their rate of button-pressing, similarly to how in normal reading the eyes tend to rest longer before moving past a difficult-to-process word or region (Clifton & Staub, 2011). Therefore, the criteria readers use when they make a conscious decision to press a button to receive the next input word can be informative when analyzing the regions of processing difficulties Depending on the research questions and the stimuli tested in the experiment, researchers decide a priori which of the words read represent the regions of interest. For example, if the research question addresses whether learners are sensitive to agreement violations between adjectives and the nouns in Spanish as in Sagarra and Herschenson\'92s (2010) study, (adjectives typically follow nouns in Spanish) (e.g., el prototipo-masc. sing. famosa-fem. sing, \'93the famous prototype\'94), the main region of interest is the adjective. Researchers are also usually interested in analyzing the RTs of the regions immediately following the region of interest (RI), the so-called \'93spillover regions\'94, since in these regions (usually one or two words following the RI) it is possible to detect late effects. These slowdowns in reading (i.e., higher RTs) are important because the onset of L2 processing can be delayed (Cf., Sagarra & Herschenson, 2010; Weber-Fox & Neville, 1996).}